Some time back I had taken a term insurance
and being a financial content
creator I thought that I know everything,
what mistake can happen while taking a term insurance, it is not
so difficult for anyone,
but reading the terms and conditions of the
term insurance I swore my mind got blown, it can be
so easy to make a mistake while taking a term insurance, I had no
idea about this and at the same time I was thinking
that we have to
make such a video for our viewers so that you do
not make those mistakes, in this video you are going to
know many new things
about term insurance and the mistakes we
can make while taking a term insurance,
watch this video till the end and we are
sure that you will not hear all these things anywhere else,
mistake number one is the
insurance account, we
take a policy of one or two crores for our family
but we never share our documents of that policy
with our family
and a concept like will does not exist in India,
so there are very
high chances that the insurance which you have taken for
your family will not be of any use.
Your family should not even know about the insurance you have taken. E-
Insurance Account. E-Insurance Account is
an initiative by the government in which
you can upload your insurance on the digital platform
and
can also share its details with your family
and it is free of cost, so make sure that
whenever you take your insurance, you
upload that insurance in e-insurance.
We have
put everything in the description about how to do it and what is the procedure.
Mistake number to sign up. The
full form of MWP is Married Wife's Property Act.
Let me tell you the importance of this act.
Suppose a person has taken an insurance of Rs 1 crore
and he has a loan of Rs 70 lakh.
If there is an eventuality, then out of Rs
1 crore, the loan amount of Rs 70 lakh will be
paid first and the remaining
amount will go to his wife and children.
But if you sign this MWP clause
in your term insurance,
then you will get the entire amount and no
creditor will get the loan amount of the child.  The
amount will not go. If there are female members,
they can also sign this to make sure that the
proceedings go to their children and
not to any other creditors.
Mistake number three: Ideal cover. If you
ask an agent what your ideal cover should be, they will
recommend 20 to 25 times your salary. Which is incorrect. Your
cover should not be calculated on the
basis of your salary, but it should be
calculated on the basis of your expenses.
That is why we will tell you a very simple formula
which you will not find anywhere else on the internet.
In this formula, we have
also considered inflation at 7 and have
estimated your life expectancy as
65. Life insurance amount is equal to
current annual expenses * 65 - current age *
20 / 7. So, if your age is 30 now and your
current annual expenses are less than 30,  per
month and 33.6 lakh per annum, then your ideal
insurance amount should be 360000 * 65 -
30 * 20 / 7 which is 3.6 lakh. Taking this amount might seem a
bit tempting, but this is the reality.
And if you are not thinking of taking anything else than this, then
you should add that amount
in this cover. Mistake number four is claim
settlement ratio vs amount settlement
ratio. Whenever we look at any term insurance policy,
we definitely look at its claim settlement
ratio, which is very
important, but it does not give you the complete picture.
Claim settlement ratio
tells you what percentage of people's
claims have been approved, but it does
not tell you how much
amount you have received out of the amount claimed by those people.
Along with claim settlement ratio, you
should also look at amount settlement ratio, so that
you can know what percentage of the amount has been
approved.
If we
look at the industry standards, the people who claimed on this policy are currently at
87, which means that all the people who claimed on
that policy are getting their total policy amount at 87.
So we should look for a policy whose
percentage is higher than the industry average. That makes sense. This is why
Maths Life
's Smart Secure Plus could make perfect sense
for you. Max Life's amount
settlement ratio is now the industry
average and is 99.5. It has a very good claim
settlement ratio. In Max Life, you can get a
cover of one CR for age less than ₹700
per month and a cover of two CR for age less than ₹
10046 per month. Obviously, this premium
will vary from individual to individual.
This premium is for a 24-year-old healthy
non-smoking male. It also covers 64
critical  Illnesses which can be added to
your base PAN at a very nominal price. The
link for this has been put inside the description.
You can definitely go and check that
box out. I would still want you to pause the
video and read the below mentioned disclaimers.
Mistake number five: Relying on group
insurance. I have noticed this trend a lot over
time that
whichever company you work with,
they give you a life insurance in the corporate and because of this
you do not take any separate insurance
for yourself. But please, I request you not to make
this mistake at all. The
life insurance that you get from the company is
with you only as long as you
are associated with that company. If for any reason
you have to leave
that company or you are fired from that company
or for any reason you are
no longer a part of that company, that insurance
stops working for you and
you may also face problems in getting separate insurance.
So please get a separate
term insurance.  Mistake number six:
Smoking to be declared or
not. Many people get confused on this point
whether they
should inform the insurance company that they are smokers or not.
If you are a smoker at the time of taking the policy, then
you should 100% inform the insurance company.
And if you also vape,
that is also considered as smoking and you should
declare that too. But if you were
not a smoker at the time of taking the policy, but
after four to five years you
started smoking, what should we do in this case? Let's
find out. Or when you take the policy,
your insurance company does your
risk underwriting at that time only. It
never
changes after that. So technically you
are not obligated to inform your
insurance company about it. But there is a
limit for that too, like two to three sticks a day.
But if after four to five years you become a very heavy
smoker, like 10 sticks a
day, then you should definitely inform your
insurance company.  About it, the same goes with
consuming alcohol. Mistake number seven is the 10 to
15 year accelerated plan. Many
companies, while buying insurance,
give you the option that you can become insurance free by paying your premium in 10 to 15 years.
And you also think that it's
okay,
why bother paying the money as soon as possible, if we can become insurance free earlier.
But we would suggest you not to go for
this option because what happens is that when you
take this option, your
premium becomes fixed. So, as
your age increases, you
progress in your career, your salary increases, it becomes
easier for you to pay the amount.
So, there is no benefit in putting this unnecessary pressure on yourself in the initial years.
We
would definitely suggest you to opt for a
normal plan and not for an accelerated one.
Mistake number one is relying blindly on
agents and choosing the right product. Okay, I agree this is
not 100% true, but we have often seen that
when you  When you buy a policy offline
from an agent, your expectations
regarding the policy are different. The product that is
sold to you is something else. In such a situation,
many times we make mistakes in understanding the policy.
Like you must have seen many influencers
saying that term
insurance is the right thing to do, ULIP is useless, or
insurance with return of premium is
absolutely useless. So let me say this
on record right now. No insurance
product is useless. We are saying this
because products are made in the market
because there is a need for them in the market. That is,
that product should align with your financial goals.
That is why we feel that
in such cases, insurance agents may not do a very
good job. At the end of the day, life
insurance is yours. Your goals
should be clear about what is your objective of
taking that insurance, whether it is
protection, child education and retirement.
You should get such an insurance product. The
goal of majority of the Indians
before buying insurance is very
simple: protection and in other
words, if something happens to us,
what is the backup for our family. You should also
Consider you can definitely consider Max
Life's online term plan, the link of which
we have put in the description of the video. Let us know in
the comment section, which of these
eight mistakes that we have told you,
which ones did you honestly know and if this
video has broadened your horizon
before buying term insurance,
before buying term insurance, if you feel that yes,
if you keep these mistakes in mind, then
you can buy better insurance, tell us that too
in the comment section till then be k fath